README.md, before:

# UVA Sustainability Metrics API

A REST API that serves summarized sustainability metrics for UVA buildings or campus-wide aggregations. This project demonstrates containerization with Docker, Flask API development, and data pipeline concepts from the course modules.

## 1) Executive Summary

**Problem:** University facilities management and sustainability offices need easy access to building-level and campus-wide sustainability metrics (energy consumption, water usage, waste diversion, CO2 emissions) to track progress, identify improvement opportunities, and report to stakeholders.

**Solution:** A containerized REST API that provides programmatic access to sustainability metrics data. The API supports querying by building, year, and provides aggregated campus-wide summaries. The service is packaged in Docker for easy deployment and reproducibility across different environments.

## 2) System Overview

### Course Concept(s)

This project integrates multiple concepts from the course modules:

1. **Flask REST API Development**: Implements a RESTful API using Flask with multiple endpoints for querying sustainability data
2. **Data Pipelines**: Processes CSV data files and provides structured access through API endpoints
3. **Containerization**: Uses Docker for reproducible deployment and environment isolation
4. **Logging & Observability**: Implements structured logging for monitoring and debugging

### Architecture Diagram

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Client Applications                       │
│         (Web Apps, Dashboards, Scripts, etc.)                │
└──────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │ HTTP/REST
                       │
┌──────────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Flask REST API (app.py)                         │
│  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐      │
│  │ /health      │  │ /api/v1/     │  │ /api/v1/     │      │
│  │              │  │ metrics      │  │ metrics/     │      │
│  │              │  │              │  │ campus-wide  │      │
│  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘      │
│                                                              │
│  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐    │
│  │         Data Processing Layer                       │    │
│  │  - CSV Loading (pandas)                            │    │
│  │  - Filtering & Aggregation                         │    │
│  │  - JSON Serialization                              │    │
│  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘    │
└──────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │
                       │ File I/O
                       │
┌──────────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────┐
│         sustainability_metrics.csv (assets/)                 │
│  - Building names                                            │
│  - Yearly metrics                                            │
│  - Energy, Water, Waste, CO2 data                            │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Docker Container                          │
│  - Python 3.11-slim                                          │
│  - Flask + Dependencies                                      │
│  - Health checks                                             │
│  - Port 8080                                                 │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Data/Models/Services

**Data Source:** 
- `assets/sustainability_metrics.csv` - Sample sustainability metrics dataset
- Contains 24 records covering 10 UVA buildings over 3 years (2020-2022)
- Metrics include: energy consumption (kWh), water consumption (gallons), waste diverted (lbs), CO2 emissions (tons)
- Building types: academic, student_life, athletic, healthcare, historic, administrative

**Data Format:**
- CSV with columns: building, year, energy_consumption_kwh, water_consumption_gallons, waste_diverted_lbs, co2_emissions_tons, metric_type
- License: MIT (included in repository)

**Services:**
- Flask REST API server
- CORS-enabled for frontend integration
- Health check endpoint for monitoring

## 3) How to Run (Local)

### Prerequisites

- Docker installed and running
- Git (for cloning the repository)

### Quick Start

**Option 1: Using run.sh (recommended)**

```bash
# Make run.sh executable
chmod +x run.sh

# Run the application
./run.sh
```

**Option 2: Manual Docker commands**

```bash
# Build the Docker image
docker build -t uva-sustain-api:latest .

# Run the container
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 uva-sustain-api:latest
```

**Option 3: Using environment variables**

```bash
# Build
docker build -t uva-sustain-api:latest .

# Run with custom port
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 \
  -e PORT=8080 \
  -e HOST=0.0.0.0 \
  -e DATA_FILE=assets/sustainability_metrics.csv \
  uva-sustain-api:latest
```

### Health Check

Once the container is running, verify it's healthy:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

Expected response:
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "service": "uva-sustainability-api",
  "data_loaded": true
}
```

### API Endpoints

**List all buildings:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/buildings
```

**Get all metrics:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics
```

**Get metrics for a specific building:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics/Alderman%20Library
```

**Filter metrics by building:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics?building=Alderman
```

**Filter metrics by year:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics?year=2022
```

**Get campus-wide aggregated metrics:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics/campus-wide
```

**Get campus-wide metrics by year:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics/campus-wide?year=2022
```

**Get campus-wide metrics aggregated by metric type:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics/campus-wide?aggregate_by=metric_type
```

## 4) Design Decisions

### Why Flask?

Flask was chosen as the web framework because:
- **Lightweight**: Minimal overhead, perfect for a simple REST API
- **Flexible**: Easy to extend with additional endpoints and features
- **Course Alignment**: Flask is a core concept covered in the course modules
- **Python Ecosystem**: Seamless integration with pandas for data processing

**Alternatives Considered:**
- **FastAPI**: More modern, but Flask is more established and covered in course
- **Django**: Too heavyweight for a simple API
- **Node.js/Express**: Would require different language ecosystem

### Why Docker?

Docker provides:
- **Reproducibility**: Same environment across development, testing, and production
- **Isolation**: No conflicts with system Python packages
- **Portability**: Runs on any system with Docker installed
- **Course Requirement**: Containerization is a key learning objective

**Alternatives Considered:**
- **Apptainer**: Good for HPC environments, but Docker is more widely used
- **Virtual environments**: Don't provide the same level of isolation and portability

### Tradeoffs

**Performance:**
- CSV loading happens at startup (acceptable for small datasets)
- In-memory data processing is fast but doesn't scale to very large datasets
- For production with large datasets, consider database integration

**Cost:**
- Minimal resource requirements (suitable for small deployments)
- No external service dependencies (no API costs)

**Complexity:**
- Simple architecture makes it easy to understand and maintain
- No database setup required (CSV is sufficient for demo)
- Tradeoff: Limited scalability without database

**Maintainability:**
- Clear separation of concerns (API endpoints, data loading, processing)
- Structured logging aids debugging
- Well-documented endpoints

### Security/Privacy

**Secrets Management:**
- No secrets hardcoded in the application
- Environment variables used for configuration
- `.env.example` provided as template (no actual secrets in repo)

**Input Validation:**
- Basic validation on query parameters (year, building name)
- Error handling for malformed requests
- SQL injection not applicable (no database), but input sanitization considered

**PII Handling:**
- Current dataset contains no personally identifiable information
- Only building names and aggregate metrics
- If expanded to include individual-level data, would need additional privacy measures

**Network Security:**
- CORS enabled for development (should be restricted in production)
- No authentication/authorization implemented (acceptable for demo)
- Production deployment should add API keys or OAuth

### Ops

**Logging:**
- Structured logging with timestamps and log levels
- Logs to stdout (Docker best practice)
- Can be collected by container orchestration platforms

**Metrics:**
- Health check endpoint for monitoring
- Response times logged for performance tracking
- Could add Prometheus metrics in future

**Scaling Considerations:**
- Stateless design allows horizontal scaling
- Current implementation loads data at startup (shared across instances)
- For multi-instance deployment, would need shared data store (database)

**Known Limitations:**
- Data loaded at startup only (no hot-reload of CSV changes)
- No caching (every request processes data)
- No rate limiting (could be overwhelmed by high traffic)
- Single CSV file (not suitable for very large datasets)

## 5) Results & Evaluation

### Screenshots/Sample Outputs

**Health Check:**
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "service": "uva-sustainability-api",
  "data_loaded": true
}
```

**List Buildings:**
```json
{
  "count": 10,
  "buildings": [
    "Alderman Library",
    "Carr's Hill",
    "Clemons Library",
    "Memorial Gymnasium",
    "Newcomb Hall",
    "Rice Hall",
    "Rotunda",
    "Student Health Center",
    "Thornton Hall"
  ]
}
```

**Building Metrics:**
```json
{
  "building": "Alderman Library",
  "count": 3,
  "data": [
    {
      "building": "Alderman Library",
      "year": 2020,
      "energy_consumption_kwh": 1250000,
      "water_consumption_gallons": 850000,
      "waste_diverted_lbs": 45000,
      "co2_emissions_tons": 285.5,
      "metric_type": "academic"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

**Campus-Wide Metrics:**
```json
{
  "aggregation": "year",
  "data": [
    {
      "year": 2020,
      "energy_consumption_kwh": 12430000,
      "water_consumption_gallons": 6960000,
      "waste_diverted_lbs": 401000,
      "co2_emissions_tons": 2835.8,
      "total_buildings": 10
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

### Performance Notes

- **Startup Time**: ~2-3 seconds (Docker image pull + container start)
- **API Response Time**: <50ms for most endpoints (in-memory processing)
- **Memory Footprint**: ~150MB (Python + Flask + pandas)
- **Container Size**: ~200MB (python:3.11-slim base image)

### Validation/Tests

**Smoke Tests:**
- Health check endpoint returns 200
- All API endpoints return valid JSON
- Building filtering works correctly
- Year filtering works correctly
- Campus-wide aggregation calculates correctly
- Error handling for invalid inputs

**Test Execution:**
```bash
# Install test dependencies
pip install -r tests/requirements.txt

# Run tests
pytest tests/test_api.py -v
```

**Test Coverage:**
- Health check endpoint
- List buildings endpoint
- Get all metrics endpoint
- Filter by building
- Filter by year
- Get specific building metrics
- Campus-wide aggregation
- Error handling (invalid building, invalid parameters)

## 6) What's Next

### Planned Improvements

1. **Database Integration**
   - Replace CSV with PostgreSQL or MongoDB
   - Support for larger datasets
   - Real-time data updates

2. **Authentication & Authorization**
   - API key authentication
   - Role-based access control
   - Rate limiting

3. **Enhanced Features**
   - Time-series analysis endpoints
   - Trend calculations (year-over-year changes)
   - Comparative analysis (building vs. building)
   - Export to CSV/JSON

4. **Observability**
   - Prometheus metrics integration
   - Request tracing
   - Performance monitoring dashboard

5. **API Documentation**
   - OpenAPI/Swagger specification
   - Interactive API documentation
   - Code examples for common use cases

6. **Deployment**
   - Kubernetes deployment manifests
   - CI/CD pipeline (GitHub Actions)
   - Cloud deployment (AWS/GCP/Azure)

7. **Data Pipeline**
   - Automated data ingestion from source systems
   - Data validation and quality checks
   - Scheduled data updates

## 7) Links

**GitHub Repo:** [INSERT-REPO-URL]

**Public Cloud App (optional):** [INSERT-CLOUD-URL]

---

## Project Structure

```
uva-sustain-api/
├── src/
│   └── app.py                 # Flask API application
├── assets/
│   └── sustainability_metrics.csv  # Sample data
├── tests/
│   ├── test_api.py           # Smoke tests
│   └── requirements.txt       # Test dependencies
├── Dockerfile                 # Docker container definition
├── requirements.txt           # Python dependencies
├── run.sh                     # One-command launcher
├── LICENSE                    # MIT License
└── README.md                  # This file
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Credits

- **Dataset**: Sample sustainability metrics data (synthetic, for demonstration purposes)
- **Framework**: Flask (https://flask.palletsprojects.com/)
- **Data Processing**: Pandas (https://pandas.pydata.org/)
- **Containerization**: Docker (https://www.docker.com/)

## Contributing

This is a course project. For questions or issues, please open an issue in the GitHub repository.

Commit message:

feat: use only uva_energy_data_template.csv, add web interface with graph comparison
- Updated all endpoints to read from uva_energy_data_template.csv only
- Removed dependency on sustainability_metrics.csv
- Added UVA-themed web interface with building selector
- Added monthly energy usage chart with efficient building comparison line
- Fixed building list to show all 14 buildings from CSV
- Updated Dockerfile to remove obsolete DATA_FILE env var

README.md, after:

# UVA Sustainability Metrics API

A REST API that serves summarized sustainability metrics for UVA buildings or campus-wide aggregations. This project demonstrates containerization with Docker, Flask API development, and data pipeline concepts from the course modules.

## 1) Executive Summary

**Problem:** University facilities management and sustainability offices need easy access to building-level and campus-wide sustainability metrics (energy consumption, water usage, waste diversion, CO2 emissions) to track progress, identify improvement opportunities, and report to stakeholders.

**Solution:** A containerized REST API that provides programmatic access to sustainability metrics data. The API supports querying by building, year, and provides aggregated campus-wide summaries. The service is packaged in Docker for easy deployment and reproducibility across different environments.

## 2) System Overview

### Course Concept(s)

This project integrates multiple concepts from the course modules:

1. **Flask REST API Development**: Implements a RESTful API using Flask with multiple endpoints for querying sustainability data
2. **Data Pipelines**: Processes CSV data files and provides structured access through API endpoints
3. **Containerization**: Uses Docker for reproducible deployment and environment isolation
4. **Logging & Observability**: Implements structured logging for monitoring and debugging

### Architecture Diagram

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Client Applications                       │
│         (Web Apps, Dashboards, Scripts, etc.)                │
└──────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │ HTTP/REST
                       │
┌──────────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Flask REST API (app.py)                         │
│  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐      │
│  │ /health      │  │ /api/v1/     │  │ /api/v1/     │      │
│  │              │  │ metrics      │  │ metrics/     │      │
│  │              │  │              │  │ campus-wide  │      │
│  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘      │
│                                                              │
│  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐    │
│  │         Data Processing Layer                       │    │
│  │  - CSV Loading (pandas)                            │    │
│  │  - Filtering & Aggregation                         │    │
│  │  - JSON Serialization                              │    │
│  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘    │
└──────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │
                       │ File I/O
                       │
┌──────────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────┐
│         sustainability_metrics.csv (assets/)                 │
│  - Building names                                            │
│  - Yearly metrics                                            │
│  - Energy, Water, Waste, CO2 data                            │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Docker Container                          │
│  - Python 3.11-slim                                          │
│  - Flask + Dependencies                                      │
│  - Health checks                                             │
│  - Port 8080                                                 │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Data/Models/Services

**Data Source:** 
- `assets/sustainability_metrics.csv` - Sample sustainability metrics dataset
- Contains 24 records covering 10 UVA buildings over 3 years (2020-2022)
- Metrics include: energy consumption (kWh), water consumption (gallons), waste diverted (lbs), CO2 emissions (tons)
- Building types: academic, student_life, athletic, healthcare, historic, administrative

**Data Format:**
- CSV with columns: building, year, energy_consumption_kwh, water_consumption_gallons, waste_diverted_lbs, co2_emissions_tons, metric_type
- License: MIT (included in repository)

**Services:**
- Flask REST API server
- CORS-enabled for frontend integration
- Health check endpoint for monitoring

## 3) How to Run (Local)

### Prerequisites

- Docker installed and running
- Git (for cloning the repository)

### Quick Start

**Option 1: Using run.sh (recommended)**

```bash
# Make run.sh executable
chmod +x run.sh

# Run the application
./run.sh
```

**Option 2: Manual Docker commands**

```bash
# Build the Docker image
docker build -t uva-sustain-api:latest .

# Run the container
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 uva-sustain-api:latest
```

**Option 3: Using environment variables**

```bash
# Build
docker build -t uva-sustain-api:latest .

# Run with custom port
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 \
  -e PORT=8080 \
  -e HOST=0.0.0.0 \
  -e DATA_FILE=assets/sustainability_metrics.csv \
  uva-sustain-api:latest
```

### Health Check

Once the container is running, verify it's healthy:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

Expected response:
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "service": "uva-sustainability-api",
  "data_loaded": true
}
```

### API Endpoints

**List all buildings:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/buildings
```

**Get all metrics:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics
```

**Get metrics for a specific building:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics/Alderman%20Library
```

**Filter metrics by building:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics?building=Alderman
```

**Filter metrics by year:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics?year=2022
```

**Get campus-wide aggregated metrics:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics/campus-wide
```

**Get campus-wide metrics by year:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics/campus-wide?year=2022
```

**Get campus-wide metrics aggregated by metric type:**
```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/api/v1/metrics/campus-wide?aggregate_by=metric_type
```

## 4) Design Decisions

### Why Flask?

Flask was chosen as the web framework because:
- **Lightweight**: Minimal overhead, perfect for a simple REST API
- **Flexible**: Easy to extend with additional endpoints and features
- **Course Alignment**: Flask is a core concept covered in the course modules
- **Python Ecosystem**: Seamless integration with pandas for data processing

**Alternatives Considered:**
- **FastAPI**: More modern, but Flask is more established and covered in course
- **Django**: Too heavyweight for a simple API
- **Node.js/Express**: Would require different language ecosystem

### Why Docker?

Docker provides:
- **Reproducibility**: Same environment across development, testing, and production
- **Isolation**: No conflicts with system Python packages
- **Portability**: Runs on any system with Docker installed
- **Course Requirement**: Containerization is a key learning objective

**Alternatives Considered:**
- **Apptainer**: Good for HPC environments, but Docker is more widely used
- **Virtual environments**: Don't provide the same level of isolation and portability

### Tradeoffs

**Performance:**
- CSV loading happens at startup (acceptable for small datasets)
- In-memory data processing is fast but doesn't scale to very large datasets
- For production with large datasets, consider database integration

**Cost:**
- Minimal resource requirements (suitable for small deployments)
- No external service dependencies (no API costs)

**Complexity:**
- Simple architecture makes it easy to understand and maintain
- No database setup required (CSV is sufficient for demo)
- Tradeoff: Limited scalability without database

**Maintainability:**
- Clear separation of concerns (API endpoints, data loading, processing)
- Structured logging aids debugging
- Well-documented endpoints

### Security/Privacy

**Secrets Management:**
- No secrets hardcoded in the application
- Environment variables used for configuration
- `.env.example` provided as template (no actual secrets in repo)

**Input Validation:**
- Basic validation on query parameters (year, building name)
- Error handling for malformed requests
- SQL injection not applicable (no database), but input sanitization considered

**PII Handling:**
- Current dataset contains no personally identifiable information
- Only building names and aggregate metrics
- If expanded to include individual-level data, would need additional privacy measures

**Network Security:**
- CORS enabled for development (should be restricted in production)
- No authentication/authorization implemented (acceptable for demo)
- Production deployment should add API keys or OAuth

### Ops

**Logging:**
- Structured logging with timestamps and log levels
- Logs to stdout (Docker best practice)
- Can be collected by container orchestration platforms

**Metrics:**
- Health check endpoint for monitoring
- Response times logged for performance tracking
- Could add Prometheus metrics in future

**Scaling Considerations:**
- Stateless design allows horizontal scaling
- Current implementation loads data at startup (shared across instances)
- For multi-instance deployment, would need shared data store (database)

**Known Limitations:**
- Data loaded at startup only (no hot-reload of CSV changes)
- No caching (every request processes data)
- No rate limiting (could be overwhelmed by high traffic)
- Single CSV file (not suitable for very large datasets)

## 5) Results & Evaluation

### Screenshots/Sample Outputs

**Health Check:**
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "service": "uva-sustainability-api",
  "data_loaded": true
}
```

**List Buildings:**
```json
{
  "count": 10,
  "buildings": [
    "Alderman Library",
    "Carr's Hill",
    "Clemons Library",
    "Memorial Gymnasium",
    "Newcomb Hall",
    "Rice Hall",
    "Rotunda",
    "Student Health Center",
    "Thornton Hall"
  ]
}
```

**Building Metrics:**
```json
{
  "building": "Alderman Library",
  "count": 3,
  "data": [
    {
      "building": "Alderman Library",
      "year": 2020,
      "energy_consumption_kwh": 1250000,
      "water_consumption_gallons": 850000,
      "waste_diverted_lbs": 45000,
      "co2_emissions_tons": 285.5,
      "metric_type": "academic"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

**Campus-Wide Metrics:**
```json
{
  "aggregation": "year",
  "data": [
    {
      "year": 2020,
      "energy_consumption_kwh": 12430000,
      "water_consumption_gallons": 6960000,
      "waste_diverted_lbs": 401000,
      "co2_emissions_tons": 2835.8,
      "total_buildings": 10
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

### Performance Notes

- **Startup Time**: ~2-3 seconds (Docker image pull + container start)
- **API Response Time**: <50ms for most endpoints (in-memory processing)
- **Memory Footprint**: ~150MB (Python + Flask + pandas)
- **Container Size**: ~200MB (python:3.11-slim base image)

### Validation/Tests

**Smoke Tests:**
- Health check endpoint returns 200
- All API endpoints return valid JSON
- Building filtering works correctly
- Year filtering works correctly
- Campus-wide aggregation calculates correctly
- Error handling for invalid inputs

**Test Execution:**
```bash
# Install test dependencies
pip install -r tests/requirements.txt

# Run tests
pytest tests/test_api.py -v
```

**Test Coverage:**
- Health check endpoint
- List buildings endpoint
- Get all metrics endpoint
- Filter by building
- Filter by year
- Get specific building metrics
- Campus-wide aggregation
- Error handling (invalid building, invalid parameters)

## 6) What's Next

### Planned Improvements

1. **Database Integration**
   - Replace CSV with PostgreSQL or MongoDB
   - Support for larger datasets
   - Real-time data updates

2. **Authentication & Authorization**
   - API key authentication
   - Role-based access control
   - Rate limiting

3. **Enhanced Features**
   - Time-series analysis endpoints
   - Trend calculations (year-over-year changes)
   - Comparative analysis (building vs. building)
   - Export to CSV/JSON

4. **Observability**
   - Prometheus metrics integration
   - Request tracing
   - Performance monitoring dashboard

5. **API Documentation**
   - OpenAPI/Swagger specification
   - Interactive API documentation
   - Code examples for common use cases

6. **Deployment**
   - Kubernetes deployment manifests
   - CI/CD pipeline (GitHub Actions)
   - Cloud deployment (AWS/GCP/Azure)

7. **Data Pipeline**
   - Automated data ingestion from source systems
   - Data validation and quality checks
   - Scheduled data updates

## 7) Links

**GitHub Repo:** [INSERT-REPO-URL]

**Public Cloud App (optional):** [INSERT-CLOUD-URL]

### Azure Deployment

This application is configured for Azure deployment. Choose your preferred method:

**Option 1: Azure Portal (Web UI) - Recommended for beginners**
- See [AZURE_PORTAL_DEPLOYMENT.md](AZURE_PORTAL_DEPLOYMENT.md) for step-by-step instructions
- No command line required - everything through the web interface

**Option 2: Azure CLI (Command Line)**
- See [AZURE_DEPLOYMENT.md](AZURE_DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed instructions
- Quick deploy: `./azure-deploy.sh` (requires Azure CLI)

---

## Project Structure

```
uva-sustain-api/
├── src/
│   └── app.py                 # Flask API application
├── assets/
│   └── sustainability_metrics.csv  # Sample data
├── tests/
│   ├── test_api.py           # Smoke tests
│   └── requirements.txt       # Test dependencies
├── Dockerfile                 # Docker container definition
├── requirements.txt           # Python dependencies
├── run.sh                     # One-command launcher
├── LICENSE                    # MIT License
└── README.md                  # This file
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Credits

- **Dataset**: Sample sustainability metrics data (synthetic, for demonstration purposes)
- **Framework**: Flask (https://flask.palletsprojects.com/)
- **Data Processing**: Pandas (https://pandas.pydata.org/)
- **Containerization**: Docker (https://www.docker.com/)

## Contributing

This is a course project. For questions or issues, please open an issue in the GitHub repository.
